- Wind energy increases by the cube of the speed, which means that each time the wind speed 
  doubles, the amount of energy increases eight times. This is the reason that the shape of 
  many automobiles is designed to move through the air with less friction. The wind resistance 
  of an automobile traveling at 60 miles per hour will be eight times greater than when 
  traveling at 30 miles per hour.

- At best, incandescent lamps are about 5% efficient, which means that a 100-watt lamp actually
  produces about 95 watts of heat and about 5 watts of light. They consume about 400% more 
  energy to produce the same amount of light as a standard fluorescent lamp.

- Light is measured in lumens. The lumens, a metric measure of light intensity as perceived by 
  the human eye, is based on the English measurement of a candela. Basically, a light source that 
  uniformly radiates 1 candela in all directions is equal to 4π lumens. Lighting efficiency is 
  measured by the lumens produced by 1 watt of electricity (lumens per watt). 

- High-pressure sodium is the most efficient, but it has a very orange color, making it unsuitable
  for many applications. These lamps are generally used in outdoor applications such as parking 
  lots and street lamps. Metal halide is also very efficient and has a near white color. These 
  lamps are often used in large buildings like factories, warehouses, and commercial locations 
  such as building supply stores. Florescent lighting is probably the type most used for homes, 
  office buildings, and retail stores. Compact fluorescent lamps are replacing incandescent lamps 
  in many homes. Although compact fluorescent lamps have an initial cost that is greater than 
  incandescent lamps, they use about one-fourth the energy to produce a similar amount of light, 
  and their average life expectancy is about 10 times longer. Because compact fluorescent lamps 
  are more energy efficient, they produce less heat for the same amount of light, reducing the 
  load on air-conditioning systems

- A current of 2 to 3 milliamperes (mA) (0.002 to 0.003 amperes) usually causes a slight tingling
  sensation, which increases as current increases and becomes very noticeable at about 10 milliamperes
  (0.010 amperes). The tingling sensation is very painful at about 20 milliamperes. Currents between 
  20 and 30 milliamperes cause a person to seize the line and be unable to let go of the circuit.
  Currents between 30 and 40 milliamperes cause muscular paralysis, and those between 40 and 60 
  milliamperes cause breathing difficulty. When the current increases to about 100 milliamperes, 
  breathing is extremely difficult. Currents from 100 to 200 milliamperes generally cause death 
  because the heart usually goes into fibrillation, a condition in which the heart begins to 
  “quiver” and the pumping action stops. Currents above 200 milliamperes cause the heart to 
  squeeze shut. When the current is removed, the heart usually returns to a normal pumping action.
  This is the operating principle of a defibrillator. The voltage considered to be the most 
  dangerous to work with is 120 volts, because that generally causes a current flow of between 
  100 and 200 milliamperes through most people’s bodies.

- OSHA
  OSHA is an acronym for Occupational Safety and Health Administration, U.S. Department of Labor.
  Created by Congress in 1971, its mission is to ensure safe and healthful workplaces in the United 
  States. Since its creation, workplace fatalities have been cut in half and occupational injury 
  and illness rates have declined by 40%. Enforcement of OSHA regulations is the responsibility 
  of the Secretary of Labor.

- Ground-fault circuit interrupters (GFCI) are used to prevent people from being electrocuted. 
  They work by sensing the amount of current flow on both the ungrounded (hot) and grounded 
  (neutral) conductors supplying power to a device. In theory, the amount of current in the two
  conductors should be equal but opposite in polarity

- GFCI Devices
  Several devices can be used to provide ground-fault protection, including the ground-fault 
  circuit breaker (Figure S–22). The circuit breaker provides ground-fault protection for an 
  entire circuit, so any device connected to the circuit is ground-fault protected. A second 
  method of protection, ground-fault receptacles (Figure S–23), provides protection at the 
  point of attachment. They have some advantages over the GFCI circuit breaker. They can be 
  connected so that they protect only the devices connected

- Arc-Fault Circuit Interrupters (AFCIs)
  Arc-fault circuit interrupters are similar to ground-fault circuit interrupters in that they 
  are designed to protect people from a particular hazard. Where the ground-fault interrupter 
  is designed to protect against electrocution, the arc-fault interrupter is intended to protect 
  against fire.

- Series Arc Faults
  Series arc faults are generally caused by loose connections. A loose screw on an outlet terminal, 
  or an improperly made wire nut connection, is a prime example of this type of problem. They are 
  called series arc faults because the circuit contains some type of current-limiting resistance 
  connected in series with the arc 

- Arc-Fault Detection
  There are conditions where arcing in an electric circuit is normal, such as these:
● Turning a light switch on or off
● Switching on or off of a motor relay
● Plugging in an appliance that is already turned on
● Changing a light bulb with the power turned on
● Using motors that contain a commutator and brushes
. The arc-fault circuit interrupter is designed to be able to distinguish between normally 
  occurring arcs and an arc fault. An arc caused by a toggle switch being used to turn a light
  on or off will produce a current spike of short duration, as shown in Figure S–27. An arc 
  fault, however, is an intermittent connection and will generally produce current spikes of 
  various magnitudes and lengths of time (Figure S–28).


