- The three principal parts of an atom are the electron, the neutron, and the proton. Although
  most atoms contain these three principal parts, the smallest atom, hydrogen, does not contain 
  a neutron (Figure 1–5). Hydrogen contains one proton and one electron. The smallest atom that 
  contains neutrons is helium (Figure 1–6). Helium contains two protons, two neutrons, and two 
  electrons. 

- The neutrons and the protons combine to form the nucleus of the atom. Because the neutron 
  has no charge, the nucleus has a net positive charge. The number of protons in the nucleus 
  determines what kind of element an atom is.

- The latest scientific measurements suggest that protons and neutrons weigh about 1838 times 
  more than the electron and that the electron is approximately 1000 times smaller than a proton
  (Figure 1–5). Previously, it was believed that the electron was about three times larger than
  the proton.

- why the protons of the nucleus do not repel each other because they all have the same charge.
  Two theories attempt to explain this. The first theory asserted that the force of gravity 
  held the nucleus together. Neutrons, like protons, are extremely massive particles. It was 
  first theorized that the gravitational attraction caused by their mass overcame the repelling 
  force of the positive charges. By the mid-1930s, however, it was known that the force of 
  gravity could not hold the nucleus together. According to Coulomb’s law, the electromagnetic 
  force in helium is about 1.1 3 1036 times greater than the gravitational force as determined 
  by Newton’s law. In 1947, the Japanese physicist Hideki Yukawa identified a subatomic particle 
  that acts as a mediator to hold the nucleus together. The particle is a quark known as a gluon.
  The force of the gluon is about 102 times stronger than the electromagnetic force.

- The orbit in which the electron exists is determined by the electron’s mass times its speed 
  times the radius of the orbit. These factors must equal the positive force of the nucleus. 
  In theory, there can be an infinite number of allowed orbits. Because the number of protons 
  in the atom is equal to the number of electrons in the atom, the overall net charge of the 
  atom is zero. This is the stable condition of the atom.

- When an electron receives enough energy from some other source, it “quantum jumps” into a 
  higher allowed orbit. Electrons, however, tend to return to a lower allowed orbit. When this 
  occurs, the electron emits the excess energy as a single photon of electromagnetic energy. This 
  movement of electrons caused by the external energy source is the basis of electric current flow.

- The number of electrons that can be contained in any one orbit: 2N^2 
  first orb: 2 x (1)^2 = 2     second orb: 2 x (2)^2 = 8     third 2 x (3)^2 = 18 
  The fourth and fifth orbits cannot hold more than 32 electrons. Thirty-two is the maximum number 
  of electrons that can be contained in any orbit: 2 x (4)^2 = 32

- The outer shell of an atom is known as the valence shell. Any electrons located in the outer 
  shell of an atom are known as valence electrons (Figure 1–16). The valence shell of an atom 
  cannot hold more than 8 electrons. Atoms with 8 electrons in the valence shell are very stable.
  Elements such as neon, argon, krypton, xenon, and radon all contain 8 valence electrons.
  These elements are called noble



